In the previous video, we already learn about
the differences between static routing and
dynamic routing.
We know that if we use dynamic routing, each
router will advertise their connected network,
so here router 1 will advertise 10.10.10.0/24
and 192.168.1.0/24.
Router 2 will advertise 10.10.10.0/24 and 192.168.2.0/24.
Okay, next for dynamic routing, we have some
protocol that we can use.
The first protocol is RIP.
But this protocol is not used anymore
And then we can use EIGRP, this is cisco proprietary,
so we only can use this protocol in cisco
devices.
If we use other vendor, we can not use EIGRP.
Next, we have OSPF, this is open protocol.
So we can use this protocol on any vendor.
Next we have BGP.
This is also open protocol.
But the usage is different with eigrp and
ospf.
We will talk more about bgp later in the next
video.
In this video, we will learn about EIGRP first.
Let’s just start, open router 1, enable,
configure terminal, to configure eigrp,
the command is router eigrp and then question
mark, here we need to define an autonomous
system number.
What is autonomous system number?
We will learn about this later when we learn
about bgp.
For now let’s just choose random number
between 1 and 65535.
Let’s say here I use 10.
One thing that you need to remember is, in
eigrp, all router must use same autonomous
system number, so here if we use 10 in router 1,
later in router 2 also must use 10.
Next, let’s advertise the connected network,
here in router 1, the connected network is
10.10.10.0/24 and 192.168.1.0/24.
So we need to advertise this two network.
The command is network and then the network,
let’s advertise 10.10.10.0 first.
Next let’s advertise 192.168.1.0.
Okay now we have done on router 1.
Next let’s configure on router 2.
Enable, configure terminal, router eigrp 10,
remember that we must use the same autonomous
system number on all router.
Next, let’s advertise the connected network,
here router 2 also have 2 connected network,
which is 10.10.10.0/24 and 192.168.2.0/24.
Let’s advertise it.
Network 10.10.10.0 and then network 192.168.2.0
Here we can see a message neighbor 10.10.10.1
is up, this is means that the eigrp is up.
To verify it, we can use command do show ip
eigrp neighbor.
Here we can see that we have a neighbor 10.10.10.1
which Is the ip address of router 1,
Let’s check the routing table, do show ip
route, here we can see that we have 2 connected route,
which is 10.10.10.0/24 and 192.168.2.0/24,
and then here we have d 192.168.1.0/24,
This route is added automatically by eigrp.
Here we can see that the destination is the
network of pc 1, and the next hop is router 1.
The label is D. D is means eigrp.
Now let’s check on router 1, do show ip route,
here we can see that router 1 also have route
to pc 2, and this is also added automatically.
Now pc 1 should be able to communicate with
pc 2, let’s try it, ping 192.168.2.2,
Okay here we can see that the ping is success.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to add 1 more router to
our topology.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video.